...Thank you so much.  That's so nice.  Isn't he a great guy.  He doesn't get a fair press; he doesn't get it.  It's just not fair.  And I have to tell you I'm here, and very strongly here, because I have great respect for Steve King and have great respect likewise for Citizens United, David and everybody, and tremendous resect for the Tea Party.  Also, also the people of Iowa.  They have something in common.  Hard-working people.  They want to work, they want to make the country great.  I love the people of Iowa.  So that's the way it is.  Very simple.  
With that said, our country is really headed in the wrong direction with a president who is doing an absolutely terrible job.  The world is collapsing around us, and many of the problems we've caused.  Our president is either grossly incompetent, a word that more and more people are using, and I think I was the first to use it, or he has a completely different agenda than you want to know about, which could be possible.  In any event, Washington is broken, and our country is in serious trouble and total disarray.  Very simple.  Politicians are all talk, no action.  They are all talk and no action.  And it's constant; it never ends.  
And I'm a conservative, actually very conservative, and I'm a Republican.  And I'm very disappointed by our Republican politicians.  Because they let the president get away with absolute murder.  You see always, oh we're going to do this, we're going to--.  Nothing ever happens; nothing ever happens.  
You look at Obamacare.  A total catastrophe and by the way it really kicks in in '16 and it is going to be a disaster.  People are closing up shops.  Doctors are quitting the business.  I have a friend of mine who's a doctor, a very good doctor, a very successful guy.  He said, I have more accountants than I have patients.  And he needs because it is so complicated and so terrible and he's never had that before and he's going to close up his business.  And he was very successful guy.  But it's happening more and more.
Look at Obamacare with a $5 billion website.  I have many websites, many, many websites.  They're all over the place.  But for $10, okay?
Now everything about Obamacare was a lie.  It was a filthy lie.  And when you think about it, lies, I mean are they prosecuted?  Does anyone do anything?  And what are the Republican politicians doing about it?  He lied about the doctor, he lied about every aspect.  You can keep your plan.  And you've all heard that hundreds of times.  That's like the real estate location, location.  I don't even say it anymore because everybody goes location, location.  But you have heard this about Obamacare.  
And it's disgraceful.  It's a big, fat, horrible lie.  Your deductibles are going through the roof.  You're not going to get--unless you're hit by an army tank, you're not going to get coverage.  And people that had plans that they loved, that they really loved, don't have those plans anymore.  So it's a real, real disaster.  And somebody has to repeal and replace Obamacare.  And they have to do it fast and not just talk about it.
Now, we have to build a fence.  And it's got to be a beauty.  Who can build better than Trump?  I build; it's what I do.  I build; I build nice fences, but I build great buildings.  Fences are easy, believe me.  I saw the other day on television people just walking across the border.  They're walking.  The military is standing there holding guns and people are just walking right in front, coming into our country.  It is so terrible.  It is so unfair.  It is so incompetent.  And we don't have the best coming in.  We have people that are criminals, we have people that are crooks.  You can certainly have terrorists.  You can certainly have Islamic terrorists.  You can have anything coming across the border.  We don't do anything about it.  So I would say that if I run and if I win, I would certainly start by building a very, very powerful border.

Again, the politicians talk about it and they do nothing about it.  Benghazi.  Oh, Benghazi, Benghazi.  Everything is Benghazi.  What happens?  Nothing.  
IRS, e-mails.  I get sued all the time, okay.  I run a big business.  You know I've always said it's very, very hard for a person who is very successful.  I have done so many deals.  Almost all of them have been tremendously successful.  You'll see that when I file my statements.  I mean you will see; you will be very proud of me, okay.  But I've always said, and I said it strongly, it's very hard for somebody that does tremendous numbers of deals to run for politics, run for political office, any office, let alone president.  Because you've done so much; you've beaten so many people; you've created so many--  Look, Obama, what did he do?  No deal.  He never did a deal.  He did one deal.  A house.  And if you did that house you'd be in jail right now, okay.  He got away with murder.  But I can tell you, e-mails.  IRS, the e-mails, thousands of them, they were lost; they were lost.  If you were in my world you would know that e-mails can't be lost; they can't be lost.  So why aren't our politicians finding out where those e-mails are?  
They talk about executive orders and they talk about immigration and they talk about oh well we have to stop the border; that's the end of it.  Believe me if I did something you would have a border that would be great.  But they talk about it.  And then you have a president that does an executive order.  Nobody even heard of an executive order.  He does it to let people come in and nobody does anything about executive orders.  Why didn't they go to court and ask for declaratory judgment--which is something that when you know somebody is going to go after you and when it's in writing, and he's been saying it for a long time; he said, I'm going to approve this and that--why didn't our Republicans go in and get a declaratory judgment from the courts because you could have started the process six months earlier.  Instead they have a weak lawsuit, that probably the time it's finished, I know so much about this, six, seven, eight years from now everyone's going to forget about it.  We'll be into a different mode, and our country will be further destroyed.  So we have to do something. 
Jobs.  China.  I mean I've made so much money fighting against the Chinese.  One of the best deals I ever did was against the Chinese, and they respect me for it.  And I know them.  And they say, we can't believe what we're getting away with.  We can't believe how stupid your leaders are.  They tell me that.  Now they don't know I'm going to go and make a speech about it, but why not.  But they tell me that.  
And by the way, especially for the folks here that sell so much--goods, I mean the goods you sell are incredible; I don't know if you've been watching what's happening with the devaluations of so many countries.  The Euro, China is going crazy with the devaluation.  I never thought that they'd have the guts to do what they're doing.  They are devaluing down to nothing.  And what it's going to do is make it impossible for you to sell your product; it's going make it impossible for you to compete.  And they're getting away with it.  And they wouldn't have even done it two years ago, but now they feel we're so weak and we have so many different problems all over the world that they can do it.  But you watch this devaluation of all of it.  I mean the Euro, China, Mexico; everybody is devaluing.  And when you hear the dollar is getting stronger, it sounds good.  You know it's one of those things, sounds good.  Be very careful.  Be very careful.  Because we're just going to lose more and more business to these foreign countries that really know what they are doing.  They have it set.  Don't forget another thing.  China became the number one economic power a year ago.  That was unthinkable; to think that that was going to happen.  It was absolutely unthinkable.  So it happened and it's very, very sad.  
Now we spent $2 trillion in Iraq.  We got nothing.  They don't even respect us; they don't even care about us.  Until they started getting their ass kicked, and call, oh please come back and help us.  We want you out; then all of the sudden a new group forms, ISIS.  By the way, you know how they formed.  They took the oil.  And for those of you that know and love Donald Trump--there are some of you--have I been saying for four years, keep the oil.  So now ISIS has the oil.  And the stuff that ISIS doesn't have, Iran is going to take.  So we get nothing.  We have $2 trillion and we have thousands of lives lost, thousands, and we have, what do we have.  I mean I walk down the streets of New York and I see so many wounded warriors, incredible people.  And we have to help those people, we have to help our vets, we have to help our military, we have to build our military.  But, and we have to do it fast; we have to do it fast.  We have incompetent people.  They put people in charge that have no clue what they're doing.  It needs money.  
We have to make our country rich again so we do that, so we can save Social Security.  'Cause I'm not a cutter; I'll probably be the only Republican that does not want to cut Social Security.  I'm not a cutter of Social Security; I want to make the country rich so that Social Security can be afforded, and Medicare and Medicaid.  Get rid of the waste, get rid of the fraud, but you deserve your Social Security; you've been paying your Security.  And like, I like Congressman Ryan, I like a lot of the people that are talking about you know cutting Social Security, and by the way the Democrats are eating your lunch on this issue.  It's an issue that you're not going to win; you've got to make the country rich again and strong again so that you can afford it, and so you can afford military, and all of the other things.  
Now, we have a game changer now, and the game changer is nuclear weapons.  We really do have to get strong, and we have to get strong fast.  We can't let Iran get a nuclear weapon.  We can't do it.  Can't do it.  We cannot let that happen.  You know in the old days, I would have said 100 years ago, 50 years ago, 30 years ago, pull out and let them fight each other.  
Here we are in Syria.  We're fighting people that want to overturn Syria.  Think of this.  We're fighting ISIS, but ISIS wants to overturn the government.  Maybe you let them fight for a little while and then you take out the one that remains, okay.  But think of it; think of it.  ISIS is fighting them and we are bombing the hell out of them, but we want Syria to fall.  There are so many things; there are so many things.  
But the one game changer that we have to be careful with, that we never really had to think about  too much before, other than a cetain number of years ago, is the nuclear.  Nuclear today, it's not like soldiers in uniforms shooting rifles.  You can take out the East Coast of this country, you can take out large sections of the Midwest, you can take out things that were unthinkable.  The power.  And we have to be in a position where that never, ever, ever, every happens.  We've never had this before.  
We have a situation in Afghanistan; we're spending tremendous amounts of money there.  We're trying to do the right thing.  We have leadership, again--no leadership respects us.  You know, leadership of other places never respect stupid people, okay, that's one thing you're going to find.  The same thing is happening there.  And I never knew that Afghanistan until a year ago or so, Afghanistan has tremendous wealth in minerals, different, not the oil, but minerals.  And we're fighting here, and on the other side of the mountain China is taking out all the minerals.  They're taking it out.  Trillion of dollars and millions of dollars of minerals.  So we're fighting here and they are taking it out, looking at us and saying thank you very much sucker.  It's really, really crazy.

So we have to rebuild quickly our infrastructure of this country.  If we don't--  The other day in Ohio a bridge collapsed.  Bridges are collapsing all over the country.  The reports on bridges and the like are unbelievable, what's happening with our infrastructure.
I go to Saudi Arabia, I go to Dubai; I am doing big jobs in Dubai.  I go to various different places.  I go to China.  They are building a bridge on every corner.  They have bridges that make the George Washington Bridge like small time stuff.  They're building the most incredible things you have ever seen.  They are building airports in Qatar--which they like to say "cutter" but I've always said "qatar" so I'll keep it "qatar" what the hell.  But they're building, they're building an airport and have just completed an airport the likes of which you have never seen, in Dubai an airport the likes of which you have never seen.  And then I come back to LaGuardia where the runways have potholes.  The place is falling apart.  You go into the main terminal and they have a terraza floor that's so old it's falling apart.  And they have a hole in it, and they replace it with asphalt.  So you have a white terraza floor and they put asphalt all over the place.  This is inside, not outside.  And I just left Dubai where they have the most incredible thing you've ever seen.  In fact my pilot said oh Mr. Trump this is such an honor.  I said it's not an honor; they're just smart.  But you look at LAX, and you look at Kennedy Airport, and you look at our airports generally, you look at our roadways where they're crumbling.  
You look at all of the things that are bad--  I'll give you an example. And this isn't part of what I was going to say, but I ride down the highways and somebody makes those guard rails.  You know the guard rails.  The ones that sort of go like this [demonstrates with hand] that are always  bent, rusted and horrible.  Did you ever see more than like 20 feet which isn't corroded, or bent or the heat, if it gets too hot, it just crushes.  Now they've been selling this thing for 25 years.  Why doesn't someone stop them and get something that works.  Because they don't know; they don't know what's happening.  Somebody made a lot of money on that.  They don't know what is happening. 
So we have to make our country great again.  We have to rebuild our country.  And we have a long way to go.  We are just in such serious trouble because we owe so much money.  Now we owe it to the Chinese, a lot of it.  We owe it to other countries.  They're the ones that hold the debt.  And then we give them money.  We have countries that we owe money to and yet we're giving them subsidies.  I just ordered thousands of television sets and between LG and Samsung and I mean you know--  No American company comes to see and comes to bid.  It's South Korea, and whenever they have a problem we send the battleships, we send the destroyers, we send our airplanes, we're going to protect them.  What are we doing; why aren't they paying us?  Why aren't they paying us; what are we doing?  I order thousands and thousands of sets all the time, for some reason it's South Korea.  You know whether it's China, South Korea, but in this case televisions, South Korea.  Why aren't they doing something to justify what is going on?  
Now, we have a very important election coming up.  We have a presidential election coming up. And we have some good people.  Nobody like Trump of course, but these are minor details.  We have some good people.
It' can't be Mitt because Mitt ran and failed.  He failed.  I mean I liked him.  Look--like him, dislike him--the 47% statement that he made, that's not going away.  The Romneycare from Massachusetts, that's not going away.  What do you think they're going to say oh we won't bring that up this time.  It's not fair because it was a long t--  That doesn't work.  But more importantly, he choked.  Something happened to him in the last month.  He had that election won.  And let me tell you something.  That election, sort of like a dealmaker that can't close the deal.  I know many of those guys; they get it up to the one-yard line, they go ah, ah I can't close it.  Or a golfer that can't sink the three-footer to win the tournament.  And there are many of them.  Most people are like that; I mean most people are like that.  You can't give somebody another chance, 'cause actually I think this election is tougher to win than beating a failed president.  I really do.  I think beating Obama would have been a much easier one than the one that's coming up, which is sad to say but true.  So you can't have Romney.  He choked.
You can't have Bush.  The last thing we need is another Bush.  Now I made that statement very strongly, and now every one says the last thing--  You know they copied it.  I'll be accused of copying the statement; that's the bad thing.  But I said it.  I was the one that said it first, and I mean it.  The last thing we need is another Bush.  Now, he's totally in favor of Common Core; that's a disaster, that's bad, it should be local and all of that.  But he's totally in favor of Common Core.  He's very, very weak on immigration.  Don't forget--remember his statement--they come for love.  I say, what?  Come for love?  You've got these people coming, half of them are criminals.  They're coming for love?  They're coming for a lot of other reasons, and it's not love.  And when he runs, you got to remember his brother really gave us Obama.  I was never a big fan, but his brother gave us Obama.  'Cause Abraham Lincoln coming home back from the dead could not have won the election because it was going so badly and the economy was just absolutely in shambles that last couple of months.  And then he appointed Justice Roberts.  And Jeb wanted Justice Roberts.  And Justice Roberts basically approved Obamacare in a shocking decision that nobody believes.  So you can't have Jeb Bush.  And he's going to lose aside from that; he's not going to win.  So Mitt and--you just can't have those two.  That's it.  That's it.  It's so simple.
So just in summing up and I just wrote a few of these little points down because it's very important.  And I watch these teleprompters, and by the way I think any president candidate that runs should not be allowed to use a teleprompter, because we got one that uses teleprompters.  And people say, oh he is so quick on his feet.  He is reading it.  I mean give me a break.  Everything is read.  You don't really test the mettle of a man or a woman unless they can get up on stage and talk.  And that's what we ended up getting--the king of teleprompters.  But, so when I look at these things here I say you know what, it's so much easier, it would be so nice, just bah, pa, bah, pa, bah, bing, bing, bing.  No problems, get off stage, everybody falls asleep and that's the end of that.  But we have to do something about these teleprompters.  
But in looking at these situations--  I built an incredible company.  And you'll see that.  An incredible company; a wonderful company.  I employ thousands of people and I love doing what I'm doing.  And in a certain way, I wish I weren't doing this, but our country is in such trouble and would be so easy to fix.  We have such great potential.
So if I run for president and if I win, I would totally succeed in: 
creating jobs; 
defeating ISIS and stopping the Islamic terrorists--and you have to do that;
reducing the budget deficit--so important, have to do it;
securing our Southern border--and I mean seriously securing it;
stopping nuclear weapons in Iran and elsewhere; 
saving Social Security, Medicare and Medicaid, without cutting it down to the bone because it's not fair to people that have been paying for their whole lives and other people and it's not fair to future people coming up, and we can do it;
repealing Obamacare and replacing it with something far better for the people, and far less expensive, both for the people and for the country.  And believe me there are plans that are so much better for everybody.  And everybody can be covered.  I'm not saying leave 50-percent of the people out.  Everybody can be c-- This plan is just a basic disaster.  Nobody knows.  As bad as the website was, this is how bad the plan itself is;
fixing our country's infrastructure, our bridges, our schools, our highways, our airports.  And that, I can tell you, nobody is close to Trump.  I just got the best hotel in North America.  I'm building, which is sort of interesting, think of this one.  I'm building one of the great hotels of the world on Pennsylvania Avenue, right opposite the White House, between the White House and Congress.  Right on Penn.--  The  Old Post Office site, and I got it from Obama.  Do you believe that?  And everybody wanted it.  So, I can't believe it myself.  But it's going to be fantastic;  
and so many other things. 
I know what needs to be done to make America great again.  We can make this country great again.  The potential is enormous.  And I am serious thinking of running for president because I can do the job.  
Thank you all very much.  Thank you.  Thank you.  Thank you.  Thank you.  Thank you very much, everybody.  Thank you.  Beautiful.  Thank you.

Thank you very much. I see these beautiful teleprompters. Believe me, I’m not using them. (Laughter.) You know I said if you run for president you should not be allowed to use teleprompters. Get these things out of here. (Laughter.)

I was watching Hillary making a speech and it was outside. And they were dead, dark, big. They weren’t even like this. These are clears. I can almost see right through them, but — which really is disturbing. Is that disturbing to the audience, wouldn’t you think? But hers, because it was outside, were black, and they were twice the size. I said what kind of a speech is that? That’s not a speech.

Most importantly, I brought my Bible. (Cheers, applause.) Okay? And, you know, it’s First Presbyterian Church, Jamaica. And this was written by my mother with my name, with — it was a long time ago — with my name, with my address, with everything. In case I lost it, somebody would return it.

You know, in the old days, if you lost something, they returned it; today a little bit less so. But I saw this and I said I have to bring it and just show it, because it brings back so many memories.

It’s really an honor to be here. And, you know, David is a fantastic guy. He’s done an amazing job. And we had some big news today with Boehner. (Cheers, applause.) And, you know, I’ve been saying for a long time — and I was just telling, actually, David, who said, by the way, I’m not a politician and I’m not politically correct. And I think that’s a great thing. (Cheers, applause.)

I just am so tired. I’m so tired of the political — I love this guy over here. Thank you. I’m so tired of the time and the effort of all of this. We don’t have time. We have a country that’s in such danger and such trouble. To be politically correct, every word is measured. And I can do it. I went to great schools. I went to an Ivy League school. So easy to do it. But who wants to do it? We have to get to business. I mean, we have to just get back to business.

But we’re going to have a very interesting period of time. And maybe it starts today, because Speaker Boehner — you know, some people like him on a personal basis. Do people like him on a personal basis? Anybody? (Laughter.) You know, we want to see — we want to see the job being done properly. We want to see — we want people that are going to get it done.

And I don’t understand. They get elected. They’re full of vim and vigor. They’re going to change things. They’re going to get rid of “Obamacare.” They’re going to do all of these things. They come down to these magnificent vaulted ceilings that you see all over Washington. And what happens? They become different people.

AUDIENCE MEMBER: That’s right.

MR. TRUMP: They become different people. They come out and they don’t do it. And I will say, you know, for the groups that want to take what they say is a harsh tone, I wrote “The Art of the Deal.” And I will tell you, “The Art of the Deal,” if they would have read it, some of — and I’m talking about the Republicans. We know where the Democrats are coming from. But we are so disappointed in the Republican establishment, because if they stuck together — in all fairness, you have a certain group of 10 percent, 12 percent of Republicans that are out there fighting, fighting. But when the other side, which is Obama and the Democrats, when they hear that they’re not going to win and they have no support, there’s no way — from “The Art of the Deal,” there’s no way that they can possibly win, that the Republicans can win.

So they’re out there. They’re left hanging so many different times. If they actually were unified, if they were brought together and unified — and you said four very important things that you’re going to take very, very strong, harsh measures — you’re going to win, because nobody’s going to — in 50 years from now, in 100 years from now, in two years from now, and even next month, nobody’s going to be talking about the speaker. Nobody’s going to be talking about any of the — they’re going to be saying let’s say something very important. The government shut down. They’re blaming the president, folks. They’re blaming the president.

And, you know, it’s sort of interesting. When you hear the Democrats, they’re very, very good — very, very good. They go, oh, we want the government to shut down. We want it to shut down. That would be so great if it shut down. It would be so wonderful if it shut down. And the Republicans say, oh, they want it to shut down. Oh, that would be bad. We’re playing right into their hands.

These people are babies. Do you remember when they said they want to impeach — do you remember — no, they’re babies. They’re babies. (Applause.) Do you remember when they said they wanted to impeach — a small group wanted to impeach Obama? Right? Remember? And then the Democrats said, no, no, we want him to be impeached. We want him to be impeached. Please impeach him. It would be so good for him. It will make him look so good. And he’ll get all of his points out. It’ll be wonderful. Do you really think they want him to be impeached? So the Republicans come back. I was just telling the folks backstage, the Republicans come back. Oh, we don’t want to do that because he wants to be. Who wants to be impeached? (Laughter.) Oh, it’s so sad.

I mean, you know, like, you have this clown, Marco Rubio. I’ve been so nice to him. (Chorus of boos.) I’ve been so nice. I’ve been so nice. And then — no, but he’s in favor of immigration, and he has been. He has been. It was the gang of eight. And you remember the gang of eight. It was terrible. (Scattered applause.) And then he went down in the polls. And you have to stay. You know what? If you believe in something, you have to be true to yourself. You have to be. You have to be.

But it was the gang of eight and it was really, really — you talk about weak on immigration; nobody weaker. And all of a sudden he goes down in the polls and all of a sudden he starts changing his tone. But you never really change your tone. You remember that.

And also, when you’re elected senator, you have to go and vote. It’s so important. You can’t say I can’t vote. And he’s got the worst record. And he hit me. And I said why is he doing that? And sometimes the Republicans do it more than anybody because they want to sort of catch on. They want to get into the publicity cycle. And all you’re doing is hurting yourselves. I mean, it’s a bad thing. All you’re doing is hurting yourselves.

Now, we have so many people that can be and should be attacked. We have a president that is extremely bad for everything that the folks in this room stand for — I mean, extremely bad. (Cheers, applause.)

You know, freedom of religion — so important. We just don’t see it. You know, you take a look at a thing like the Iran deal. We talk freedom of religion, look at the Iran — how long is this whole thing going to last when we have incompetent people — grossly incompetent people negotiating these vital deals like that deal where 24 days and all — I don’t have to go over all of the many problems with the deal. Even Israel — Israel is in such trouble with this deal.

And you know in that deal probably it says — and nobody even understands what says, which is a problem — (laughter) — but probably if Israel ever attacked Iran, we’re supposed to come to their defense. Do we know that? Nobody’s able to tell us what is going on with respect to that. If Israel has to — because at some point something might happen. The deal is horrible. The deal is horrible, from any standpoint. And we have to do something. And I can say it’s going to have to be renegotiated.

You know, I’ve made a living of buying bad — I love bad deals, because you buy them cheap, do you understand that? (Laughter.) You buy them cheap. (Applause.) I love horrible contracts. I love buying — I bought them from friends of mine. I buy a horrible, horrible contract. The poor guy is dying with it. He’s getting killed. I buy it cheap. I then go and fight like hell and make it a great contract. Sometimes you chapter it, some — you do lots of different things, whatever you have to do. And you make it a great contract.

That contract, that agreement has to be changed. We have no choice, because if it isn’t you’re going to have nuclear proliferation — it’s already happening. You’re going to have potentially the destruction of Israel. It has to be changed. One of the things in that contract that I cannot believe, we’re giving them $150 billion dollars. Right? (Laughter, applause.) No, we’re giving them $150 billion dollars of which they’re going to use, and already are using — they’re ordering missiles from Russia. They’re doing things that probably and definitely we can’t allow them to do. But they’re doing it.

We cannot allow the incompetence that we’ve had going on in this country. We just can’t — we have to use our greatest negotiations. We have to use our smartest people. We use political hacks — they’re all political hacks. They’re negotiating deals that they should — they have no right doing it. Take a look at another thing — one thing — and, look, nuclear’s so important, but you have four prisoners. One of them’s over there because he’s a Christian. He’s over in jail because he’s a Christian.

Now, at the beginning of the negotiation — by the way, it used to be three at the beginning, now it’s four. But you say very simply before you start, fellas — and by the way I have to say, to the women, it’s all fellas over there. They haven’t figured out that women are smarter than men. They haven’t figured this out yet. (Laughter, applause.) A little detail. They’ll figure. It’ll take another 150 years, but they’ll figure it. (Laughter.) You say, fellas, you got to give us back our prisoners. You got to do it. You got to do it. No, you got to do it. (Cheers, applause.) You got to give us back our prisoners.

Now, they went to Kerry who is — you know, broke his leg playing — this guy’s in a bicycle race, can you believe it? (Laughter.) He’s in a bicycle race. He’s got the hat. He’s got the emblem. I said, what’s he doing? He as actually in a race. It wasn’t just like let’s get a little exercise. Breaks his leg. This is our negotiator, all right? So he walks in — (laughter) — he walks in with crutches. And they say, what the hell is with this guy? Is he crazy? (Laughter.) We have to very simply — as an example, that example. You walk in at the beginning, not the end — not the end. You say, fellas, before we start, you have four prisoners. You don’t want them. We do. It would send a great signal to the American people. It’ll make the deal much easier. You’ll make another deal. It’ll make it much easier.

You got to give us back. If they say no, you take a walk because you know you’re not going to get anything. You take a walk. (Cheers, applause.) You take a walk. And I guarantee you — I guarantee you, as sure as you’re sitting there, that within a short period of time they call back, you have your prisoners — you have them. But here’s the worst, it isn’t even — and you need the right messenger. If I’m the messenger, you get those prisoners back. I tell you what — I tell you what — (cheers) — I’ll make this statement. If I get elected president, before I ever get to office, I guarantee you they will be back — I guarantee 100 percent. (Cheers, applause.) A hundred — that’s a hundred percent.

But you need the right messenger. And in the case of the prisoners, they never even asked. Can you believe it? They said, both Obama and Kerry said we didn’t want to complicate the negotiations. (Jeers.) No, no, I mean, this was really a statement. We don’t want to complicate. So it’s time. I’m a business man. I made a tremendous amount of money — a tremendous amount. It’s ridiculous. I mean, I don’t even believe it myself. You want to know the truth? I don’t even believe it. (Applause.) I’m self-funding — I don’t want to have the lobbyists and the special interests put money into my campaign. (Cheers, applause.)

I’m turning down — by the way, I’m turning down millions of dollars. I’ve turned down millions and millions of dollars. I actually feel foolish because it’s so anti-me. It’ so, like, it’s not me. (Laughter, applause.) But I turn down millions and millions. And yet — you know, I was in Iowa two weeks ago. And I had a great audience. We had a — we’ve had just such great people and great crowds. And I said to the people, do you mind if I take millions of dollars? I promise you I won’t do anything for the people giving me the money? Do you mind? And they all stood up and they said no, no, no. It was really important. I didn’t know it was going to be that important.

Anyway, I think self-funding’s great. I’m the only one that’s self-funding. Everyone else — believe me, whether it’s Bush, who by the way, along with Rubio — but whether it’s Bush or anybody in favor of common core. I mean, I think of it. Now, you talk from a Christian standpoint. You want local school representation. (Cheers, applause.) You want local. (Cheers, applause.) Common Core is a disaster.

But you people that really are tough and smart. You look at another thing, trade. That’s what I’m — oh, I’m going to do so good. I always say I will be the greatest jobs president that God ever created. That I tell you. That I tell you. (Cheers, applause.) You know, people say — and actually, CNN did a poll and I come out so high on that, on the economy. And by the way, like much, much higher, not even close. I come out the highest by far on that. And leadership, I come out high on leadership. And I come out high on really other categories.

Then I say, if I’m so high in all these categories, why do we even have to have an election, right? (Laughter.) Why? Why? (Laughter.)

But a woman stood up — because I didn’t sue — you know, the one thing I was a little weak on, people were not sure I was a nice person. And I am. I am. (Laughter.) I am. I am, I’m a giving person. (Applause.) I believe in God. I believe in the Bible. I’m a Christian. I’m — you know, I have a lot of reasons. I love — I love people. But the woman stood up. She said, Mr. Trump, I’m a big fan of yours and I’m going to vote for you, but I don’t know if you’re nice enough to get elected. I said, I really think I’m a nice person, but let me tell you something: I really think this is going to be an election based on competence.

AUDIENCE MEMBER: Yeah!

MR. TRUMP: We need now competence. And we have to have something. We — we need help.

We owe China $1.5 trillion. Think of it. They suck our money out, they take our jobs, they do everything, and we owe them money. How does that work? Not so good. (Laughter.) No, we owe them. Supposed to be the other way around, right?

Japan. We owe them the exact same amount, $1.5 trillion. They sell us cars, biggest boats you’ve ever seen coming into the harbors. You’ve never seen boats — I’ve never seen ships like this. They’re loaded, loaded with cars. So they send millions of cars over here. We sell them beef — beef. They don’t want it. Half the time they send it back. They want to send it back. The farmers over there don’t want it. So we take it back. That’s not good beef by the time you get it back. I said the other day — (laughter) — no, no, I say it’s aged; now they call it Kobe beef and we sell it for more money, you know, it’s one of the — (laughter).

But — but you look at the imbalance, the U.S. trade — I mean, look at — look at the U.S. trade. China, almost $400 billion a year we lose. Japan, $75 billion a year.

Mexico — they all say the fence. First of all, we are going to build a wall, and it’s going to be a real wall, OK? (Cheers, applause.) If people like it or don’t, we’re going to build a wall. (Applause.) And it’s going to have a big, beautiful door, and people are coming to come into the country, but they’re going to come in legally. They’re going to come into the country legally. (Cheers, applause.) And when people graduate number one in their class from Harvard and Yale, we don’t send them out. And they want to stay in the country.

You know, there was a case the other day I read about where somebody — a great student at a great school — couldn’t stay. From India, couldn’t stay in the country, no matter what. And they forced him out. And he founded a company a few years ago in India — 5,000 employees, one of the most successful companies, an unbelievable job. We could have had him here, and we force them out. Silicon Valley needs people. We all need people. But we force these incredible people that have been in our system for years — we force them out. They graduate, boom, get out.

So we’ve got to be smart. We’ve got to be tough.

We can’t allow our veterans to be treated the way they’re treated. They’re treated horribly. (Cheers, applause.) They’re treated horribly.

And our military? If I win, we’re going to make our military so big, so strong, so powerful nobody will ever mess with us, folks. We are really in serious trouble. You have — (cheers, applause) — you have Putin the other day, not so long ago, saying, you know, they better be careful, we have nuclear missiles. I’ve never heard — you know, coming from Russia. But you have North Korea, you have so many other places.

I brought up recently, you know, during the debate — anybody watch the debate, by any chance?

AUDIENCE: Yeah! (Applause.)

MR. TRUMP: How did I do? How did I do? (Cheers, applause.) Right? I won every single poll, and yet these media people, oh, Donald Trump didn’t — I won every poll. I won Drudge. I love Drudge. I love Drudge. (Laughter, applause.) But I won Drudge. I won Time magazine. I won every single poll — Slate, places I never even heard of. I won every poll. (Laughter.)

Then I turn on the television and even — I think the Fox poll had me at second, and they — they wouldn’t say it. They wouldn’t tell. They wouldn’t say I was in second. Other polls, they said I did great.

Then I’m listening to some of the pundits. I won’t use their name, because actually some of them are getting better, you know, as I get higher and higher. We’re doing great. In fact, with Evangelicals in Iowa — just came out — I’m number one at 29 (percent), substantially ahead of anyone else. I’m happy about that. (Cheers, applause.) You know why? That’s the reason. (Laughter.) That’s the reason. (Laughter, applause.)

But — but we have to be careful, as Christians. The progressives are pushing — the progressives are pushing to an extent that, if we’re not careful, we’re going to have some big problems, and even bigger than we have right now.

Look, we need people that can support us. We need people that are strong and smart and can back us. The word “Christmas” — I love Christmas. I love Christmas. You go to stores now, you don’t see the word “Christmas.” It says “Happy Holidays” all over. I say, where’s Christmas? I tell my wife: don’t go to those stores. I want to see Christmas. No, I want to see Christmas. (Cheers, applause.) And you know, other people can have their holidays, no. But Christmas is Christmas. I want to see “Merry Christmas.”

Remember the expression “Merry Christmas”? You don’t see it anymore. You’re going to see it if I get elected, I can tell you right now. I can tell you right now. (Cheers, applause.)

So I just want to thank you for the — it’s been an amazing group of people. You’ve been amazing. And to have such a fantastic room. But I just want to thank everybody. You know, I got into this and everyone said, there’s no way he’ll ever do it, he’s got this wonderful company, he’s got — I do. I have a wonderful life.

But I see what’s happening. I see what’s happening with the country. I see so many things going wrong, so many things that are caused really by incompetence, that can be straightened out. We can straighten it out fairly quickly. I will tell you if we don’t stop it now, however, it’s going to be — at some point it’s going to be too late. You’re not going to be able to turn it. You’re not going to be able to turn it.

But I got in and they said, you know, he’ll never do it. So I did it. They all said, oh, he did it. Then they’ll say, he’ll never file, like, form A, which is basically a single page where you’re signing your life away. I signed it. I signed form A. They said, oh, I don’t believe it. Then they said he’ll never put in his financials because maybe he’s not as big financially as everybody thinks. I put in my — almost a hundred pages, like the biggest ever filed by far, by far — (laughter) — and I had it ahead of — but you know, they said, oh, he’ll ask for all the extensions. And you had some of the politicians asking for extensions and they were one page. (Laughter.) I put it in ahead of schedule, and it turned out the company was much bigger than anybody thought, much stronger. It was — it’s an amazing company, right? So they said, this guy might be running.

Then I go with the polls, and the polls go up just like the Evangelicals in Iowa. The polls — I start, bing, bing, bing, bing. And every single two or three weeks, when the polls come out, they said, well, now he’s reached his cap. I started at 6 (percent). It went to 9 (percent). It went to 12 (percent). It was like a rocket ship, right? You’ve seen it. I mean, I’m not telling you anything. (Laughter.) And — and it went to 20 (percent) and it went to 22 (percent). Then it went — and then the other day, in a Fox poll, it went up 2 (percent). And I’m killing everybody. And they say, other people are surging, Trump is staying still. But I’m up! I went up. I didn’t stay still. I went up 2 points, right, a big two points. (Laughter.) And I had another one where I’m 33 (percent) — 33 (percent) — and the next one I think was like 12 (percent) or 15 (percent), and they don’t want to report it. They don’t put the poll out. I said, why aren’t you putting the poll out? Well, we don’t like that poll. This is a great poll. (Laughter.) It’s a great poll. (Laughter.) And they wouldn’t put it out.

So, you know, I get angry at these things, because you know what I like? I like fairness. Somebody said, do you have thin skin? I don’t. If I’m wrong about something, I don’t mind, the media can do whatever they want. But I have thin skin when I’m right about something when I know they’re doing a number on all of us, because when I ran — and the reason I ran is because I want to make this country great again. And we’re going to do it. (Cheers, applause.) We’re going to do it. (Cheers, applause.) And we’re going to do it a lot faster and a lot better than anybody thinks is possible. (Applause.)

And I just want to thank everybody. You’re special people and I love you all. (Applause.) And this is the key. Thank you all. Thank you very much. Thank you. (Cheers, applause.) Thank you very much, everybody. (Cheers, applause.)