 
You know, it really doesn’t matter what the media write as long as you’ve got a young and beautiful piece of ass. he concept of global warming was created by and for the Chinese in order to make U.S. manufacturing non-competitive. Listen you mother fucker, we're going to tax you 25 percent! When was the last time anybody saw us beating, let's say, China in a trade deal? They kill us. I beat China all the time. All the time. The U.S. will invite El Chapo, the Mexican drug lord who just escaped prison, to become a U.S. citizen because our "leaders" can't say no! I will build a great wall. And nobody builds walls better than me, believe me. And I’ll build them very inexpensively. I will build a great, great wall on our southern border, and I will make Mexico pay for that wall. Mark my words. When Mexico sends its people, they're not sending the best. They're not sending you, they're sending people that have lots of problems and they're bringing those problems with us. They’re bringing drugs. They’re bringing crime. They’re rapists. And some, I assume, are good people. The wall will go up and Mexico will start behaving. Our great African American President hasn't exactly had a positive impact on the thugs who are so happily and openly destroying Baltimore! Laziness is a trait in the blacks. Black guys counting my money! I hate it. The only kind of people I want counting my money are little short guys that wear yamakas every day. If I were running 'The View,' I'd fire Rosie. I mean, I'd look her right in that fat, ugly face of hers, I'd say, Rosie, you're fired. Rosie O’Donnell’s disgusting both inside and out. You take a look at her, she’s a slob. She talks like a truck driver, she doesn’t have her facts, she’ll say anything that comes to her mind. I fully understand why her former husband left her for a man- he made a good decision. Hillary Clinton was the worst Secretary of State in the history of the United States. There's never been a Secretary of State so bad as Hillary. The world blew up around us. We lost everything, including all relationships. There wasn't one good thing that came out of that administration or her being Secretary of State. If you can’t get rich dealing with politicians, there’s something wrong with you. We build a school, we build a road, they blow up the school, we build another school, we build another road they blow them up, we build again, in the meantime we can't get a fucking school in Brooklyn. A certificate of live birth is not the same thing by any stretch of the imagination as a birth certificate. Free trade is terrible. Free trade can be wonderful if you have smart people. But we have stupid people. He's not a war hero. He's a war hero because he was captured. I like people that weren't captured, OK, I hate to tell you. I  saw a report yesterday. There’s so much oil, all over the world, they don’t know where to dump it. And Saudi Arabia says, ‘Oh, there’s too much oil.’ Do you think they’re our friends? They’re not our friends. All the women on The Apprentice flirted with me , consciously or unconsciously. That’s to be expected. One of the key problems today is that politics is such a disgrace. Good people don’t go into government. I know the Chinese. I've made a lot of money with the Chinese. I understand the Chinese mind. He's a war hero because he was captured. I like people who weren’t captured. Perhaps he's a war hero. What can be simpler or more accurately stated? The Mexican Government is forcing their most unwanted people into the United States. They are, in many cases, criminals, drug dealers, rapists, etc. I’ll win the Latino vote because I’ll create jobs. I’ll create jobs and the Latinos will have jobs they didn’t have. I would bomb the hell out of those oilfields. I wouldn't send many troops because you won't need 'em by the time I'm finished. He has done nothing for African-Americans. You look at what's gone on with their income levels. You look at what's gone on with their youth. I thought that he would be a great cheerleader for this country. I thought he'd do a fabulous job for the African-American citizens of this country. He has done nothing. If Hilary Clinton can't satisfy her husband, what makes her think she can satisfy America? I don't have a racist bone in my body. Jeb Bush has to like the Mexican Illegals because of his wife. A nation WITHOUT BORDERS is not a nation at all. We must have a wall. The rule of law matters. This very expensive GLOBAL WARMING bullshit has got to stop. Our planet is freezing, record low temps,and our GW scientists are stuck in ice. People are so shocked when they find out I am Protestant. I am Presbyterian. And I go to church and I love God and I love my church. No more massive injections. Obama is going to be out playing golf.  I don’t think even understands what he is saying. A well-educated black has a tremendous advantage over a well-educated white in terms of the job market. I cherish women. I want to help women. I’m going to be able to do things for women that no other candidate would be able to do. I will be so good to women. Everything I've done virtually has been a tremendous success. I will get along, I think, with Putin, and I will get along with others, and we will have a much more stable world. I think she’s got a beautiful face, and I think she’s a beautiful woman. I will take care of women. I respect women. This is a country where we speak English, not Spanish. I said nothing wrong, but I do hear she's a lovely woman. Autism has become an epidemic. I am totally in favor of vaccines, but I want smaller doses over a longer period of time.
Part of the beauty of me is that I am very rich. I’m not a schmuck. I do not wear a rug. My hair is one hundred percent mine. Let me tell you, I’m a really smart guy. Sometimes your best investments are the ones you don’t make. A certificate of live birth is not the same thing by any stretch of the imagination as a birth certificate. My fingers are long and beautiful, as, it has been well been documented, are various other parts of my body. Some people call me lucky, but I know better. I love beautiful women, and beautiful women love me. It has to be both ways. They’re sending people who have lots of problems. They bring in drugs, they bring in crime, they’re rapists. I assume some are good people. It’s got to stop, and it’s got to stop fast. I have a great relationship with the blacks. I’ve always had a great relationship with the blacks. I am the least racist person there is. And I think most people that know me would tell you that. I am the least racist. It’s like taking the New England Patriots and Tom Brady and have them play your high school football team. That’s the difference between our leaders and China’s leaders. The concept of global warming was created by and for the Chinese in order to make U.S. manufacturing non-competitive. My twitter has become so powerful that I can actually make my enemies tell the truth. It’s freezing and snowing in New York—we need global warming! People are tired of these nice people. By the way, I have great respect for China. I have many Chinese friends. They live in my buildings all over the place. Free trade is terrible. Free trade can be wonderful if you have smart people. But we have stupid people. Why is Obama playing basketball today? That is why our country is in trouble! Sadly, because president Obama has done such a poor job as president, you won’t see another black president for generations! I’ve always been a fan of Steve Jobs, especially after watching Apple stock collapse w/out him—but the yacht he built is truly ugly. I’ll tell you, it’s Big Business. If there is one word to describe Atlantic City, it’s Big Business. Or two words—Big Business. We have nobody in Washington that sits back and said, you’re not going to raise that fucking price. More votes equals a loss…revolution! Who’s doing the raping? Who’s doing the raping? The more you know, the more you realize how much you don’t know. I get up, take a shower and wash my hair. Then I read the newspapers and watch the news on television, and slowly the hair dries. It takes about an hour. I don’t use the blow dryer. Once it’s dry I comb it. Once I have it the way I like it—even though nobody else likes it—I spray it and it’s good for the day. Sorry losers and haters, but my IQ is one of the highest—and you all know it! Please don’t feel so stupid or insecure, it’s not your fault. And did you notice that baby was crying through half of the speech and I didn’t get angry? Not once. Did you notice that? That baby was driving me crazy. I didn’t get angry once because I didn’t want to insult the parents for not taking the kid out of the room! I think the only difference between me and the other candidates is that I’m more honest and my women are more beautiful. It’s amazing how people can talk about me but I’m not allowed to talk about them. In life you have to rely on the past, and that’s called history. I will be the greatest jobs president that God ever created.
An extremely credible source has called my office and told me that Barak Obama’s birth certificate is a fraud. He may have one but there's something on that, maybe religion, maybe it says he is a Muslim. I don't know. Maybe he doesn't want that. Or he may not have one. I will tell you this: if he wasn't born in this country, it's one of the great scams of all time. She cheated on him like a dog & will do it again--just watch. He can do much better! They had no definitive proof against Tom Brady. If Hillary doesn't have to produce Emails, why should Tom? Very unfair! Stop the EBOLA patients from entering the U.S. Treat them,  at the highest level, over there. THE UNITED STATES HAS ENOUGH PROBLEMS! While Bette Midler is an extremely unattractive woman, I refuse to say that because I always insist on being politically correct. Some of the candidates, they went in and didn’t know the air conditioner didn’t work and sweated like dogs, and they didn’t know the room was too big because they didn’t have anybody there. How are they going to beat ISIS? We have a 5 billion dollar website. I have so many websites … I hire people. They do a website. It costs me three dollars. They built a hotel. When I build a hotel, I have to pay interest. They don’t have to pay interest because they took the oil when we left Iraq, I said we should have taken. So now ISIS has the oil. I watch the speeches of these people, and they say the sun will rise, the moon will set, all sorts of wonderful things will happen, and people are saying, ‘What is going on? I just want a job. I’m not a big fan. The last thing we need is another Bush. Guilty as hell. Guilty as hell. I’ve known him, and I’ve never liked him. A total lightweight. In the private sector, he couldn’t get a job. Believe me. Couldn't get a job. He couldn't do what you people did. You're retired as hell and rich. He wouldn't be rich; he'd be poor. Iis truly dumb as a rock. A totally overrated clown who speaks without knowing facts. your small and slightly failing magazine will be a giant success when you finally back Trump. Country will soar! Macy's stores suck and they are bad for U.S.A. I'm not going to Mexico. He needs a new pair of glasses to see the crimes committed by illegal immigrants. He put on glasses so people will think he's smart. And it just doesn't work! You know people can see through the glasses. Remember, new ‘environment friendly’ light bulbs can cause cancer. I’m intelligent. Some people would say I’m very, very, very intelligent. Who the fuck knows? I mean, really, who knows how much the Japs will pay for Manhattan property these days? I’ve never had any trouble in bed. I have many women that work for me. I have really given a lot of women great opportunity. Unfortunately, after they are a star, the fun is over for me. When a man leaves a woman, especially when it was perceived that he has left for a piece of ass—a good one! You know who’s one of the great beauties of the world, according to everybody? And I helped create her. Ivanka. My daughter, Ivanka. She’s 6 feet tall, she’s got the best body. She made a lot money as a model—a tremendous amount. Every guy in the country wants to go out with my daughter. she does have a very nice figure. I’ve said if Ivanka weren’t my daughter, perhaps I’d be dating her. Her parents are friends of mine, and, you know, the first time I saw her, she walked into the room and I said, ‘Who the hell is that?’ … Well, at 12, I wasn’t interested. I’ve never been into that. There’s nothing I love more than women, but they’re really a lot different than portrayed. They are far worse than men, far more aggressive. If Hillary Clinton can’t satisfy her husband what makes her think she can satisfy America? Women: You have to treat ’em like shit. What I say is what I say. Sometimes it pays to be a little wild. There are two publics as far as I’m concerned. The real public and then there’s the New York society horseshit. The real public has always liked Donald Trump. That’s why a little hyperbole never hurts. People want to believe that something is the biggest and the greatest and the most spectacular. I can’t tell you how many of my rich friends are dying, dying to have me put them on that show. I want a very good-looking guy to play me. I have no intention of running for President. Where has this country gone when you’re not supposed to put in a grave the son of a bitch who robbed, beat, murdered and threw a 90-year-old woman off the building? I know politicians who love women who don’t even want to be known for that, because they might lose the gay vote, OK? I’ll sign the fucking contract.’ I understand. Fuck it. It’s just more work. That’s bullshit. Fighting for the last penny is a very good philosophy to have. I aim very high, and then I just keep pushing and pushing and pushing to get what I’m after. nd I win, I win, I always win. In the end, I always win, whether it’s in golf, whether it’s in tennis, whether it’s in life, I just always win. I do whine because I want to win, and I'm not happy about not winning, and I am a whiner, and I keep whining and whining until I win. For many years I’ve said that if someone screws you, screw them back. I think she’s a terrible person. I can look at people and see what they are. And I’m not saying she’s an unattractive woman, but she’s not a beauty, by any stretch of the imagination. I really understand beauty. She’s lonely. She’s unhappy. She’s very miserable. I like people who weren’t captured, OK? I have a big plane. He doesn’t. That showed such weakness, the way he was taken away by two young women. He tells the guy to tell his girlfriend to shut up. Tell that bitch to be cool. Say: Bitch be cool. I can be a killer and a nice guy. The coal miner gets black-lung disease, his son gets it, then his son. If I had been the son of a coal miner, I would have left the damn mines. I’ve done an incredible job.