Reversing deforestation is complicated; planting a tree is simple. Progress is a choice. Job creation is a choice. Whether we give our children a future of more or a future of less - this, too, is a choice. The death penalty is ineffective as a deterrent, and the appeals process is expensive and cruel to the surviving family members. Public trust is essential to public safety. Together with President Obama, we are moving America forward, not back. God doesn't make mistakes and has made each of us in his own image. God is simply love. There should be no fear in love. If we want better results, we have to make better choices. Every child should be given a strong start to their education. We make our own future; we govern ourselves, and to govern is to choose. In this economy there are shipbuilders and ship wreckers. I have a new theory: Positive is the new negative. Civil rights was not an impossible dream. Thousands of brave African Americans stepped forward to make it happen. Climate change is transforming the world in profound ways that continue to evolve. Extreme poverty is extremely dangerous. I believe marriage is a human right, not a state right. I go to the gym pretty regularly. I like Iowa. I know Iowa. I've spent some time in Iowa. Good people in Iowa. It's a great state. No woman who works full time and plays by the rules should have to raise her family in poverty. None of us wants to pay more at the pump. Protecting our land, our air and our water is a very important thing that we can only do together. Some have even made a lot of money on it. I couldn't agree more. The march of progress must continue. Typically, I don't get to unwind after a day at work. We have to raise the minimum wage. To those who say climate change is not caused by human activity or that addressing it will harm the economy, let’s encourage them to go to college, too, and to study physics and to study economics, but for the rest of us, let’s get to work. My Catholic faith has taught me that there is no such thing as a spare person, and we progress as a community in response to diversity. There are times — as our church knows very well in this country, in times of economic contraction — when the Know Nothings and the xenophobes blame the last arriving group of new Americans. Human dignity is the concept that leads brave individuals to sacrifice their lives for the lives of strangers. Human dignity is the universal truth that is the basis of ethics. Human dignity is the fundamental belief on which the laws of this state and this republic are founded. And absent a deterrent value, the damage done to the concept of human dignity by our conscious communal use of the death penalty is greater than the benefit of even a justly drawn retribution. Our parents taught us to love God, love our family, and love our country. Their own grandparents were immigrants. Their first language might not have been English, but the hopes and dreams they had for their children were purely American.  Art of all kinds—music, literature, traditional arts, visual arts—can lift a community. More so than equal rights, more so than fairness, more so than justice or injustice, the word that allowed us to move forward was really dignity: The dignity of every home, the dignity of a job, the dignity of work, the dignity of every family, the dignity of every individual. When we succeed, if this goes to a referendum, I believe it will be because of that evolution of the public discourse. Nothing says jobs like transvaginal probes. The American people are sick and tired of hearing about the damn unit. This actually is America's fight. It cannot solely be America's fight. America is best when we work in collaboration with our allies. America is best when we are actually standing up to evil in this world. The world is a very dangerous place.I believe calling it what it is, is to say radical jihadis, that's to call what it is. They are our first line of defense. There are other ways to lead than to be a moral leader in this world rather than at the opposite end of a drone strike. That's right. Immigrant bashing carnival barker Donald Trump. The truth is matter is net immigration from Mexico last year was zero. That's what our parents and grandparents always did. That's what we need to do as a nation. And if our middle class makes more money, they spend more money. And our whole economy grows. We did it. Oh, come on now. Yeah, but, yes, it should always be going up. With all due respect to Secretary Clinton. Well, I'll tell you what, I've said this before, I-- I don't-- I believe that we actually need some new economic thinking in the White House. . But I won't be taking my orders from Wall Street. . Our economy was wrecked by the big banks of Wall Street. We expect that our president will protect the main street economy from excesses on Wall Street. And that's why Bernie's right. We need to reinstate a modern version of Glass Steagall and we should have done it already. Oh yes, there is. Yes, there is. Saved a lot of lives along the way. acknowledge that by going online at MartinO'Malley.com and help me wage this campaign for real American capitalism. And to stop doing the things that don't. The truth of the matter is. The truth is. I believe that actually affordable college, debt-free college is the goal that we need to attain as a nation. I believe that the goal should be debt-free college. You learn that threats always change. You learn to create-- a security cabinet. You learn to create feedback mechanisms. Go onto MartinOMalley.com. No hour is too short, no dollar too small. We are at the threshold of a new era of American progress. That it's going to require that we act as Americans, based on our principles. Here at home, making an economy that works for all of us. I need your help. Thank you very, very much. That All of us are created equal.

And that we are endowed by our Creator with the rights to Life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness.

With these words, the American dream began.

No fine print. No expiration date.

All of us are included.

Women and men.

Black and white people.

Irish Americans, Asian Americans, Latino Americans, Native Americans. Jewish, Christian, and Muslim Americans.

Young and old. Rich and poor. Workers and Business owners. Gay, Lesbian, Transgender and straight Americans.

Every person is important, each of us is needed.

In our idea of country, there is no such thing as a spare American.

There is, however, a growing injustice in our country today.

It is the gap between the strong and just country our children need for us to be,… and the country we are in danger of becoming.

For today in America, seventy percent of us are earning the same or less than they were 12 years ago. This is the first time that has happened this side of World War II.

Today in America, family owned businesses and farms are struggling to compete with ever larger concentrations of corporate power,…

Fifty years ago, the nation’s largest employer was GM. An average GM employee could pay for a year’s tuition at a state university with two weeks’ wages.

Today in America, with dreams of college, a decent paying job, and a secure retirement slipping beyond the reach of so very many,… the American Dream seems to be hanging by a thread.

And yet, for America there is always a yet.

The final thread that holds us just might be the strongest.

It is the thread of the generosity, the compassion, and the love of one another that brings us together as One American People.

For over 200 years we’ve been the architects of our own future. And now we must build anew today.

My father and mother, Tom and Barbara O’Malley, were born to the Great Depression and grew up as part of that great generation that won the Second World War.  My dad flew 33 missions over Japan in a B-24 Liberator, and went on to college only because of the GI Bill.

My mom, herself, flew in the Civil Air Patrol at the age of seventeen.

They raised their children — the six of us — to a middle class future secured largely by the sacrifices and better choices of their generation.

But they would never accept the notion that somehow theirs was the “greatest generation.” For they believed and they taught us thatevery generation of Americans has the ability — and the sacred responsibility — to become great.

And so we must. No matter how long the odds, no matter how large the challenge, and no matter how tough the fight.

This is the urgent work calling us forward today: to rebuild the truth of the American Dream for ALL Americans. And to begin right now! This is not how our economy is supposed to work!

This is not how our country is supposed to work!

This is not the American Dream!

And it does not have to be this way!

This generation still has time to become great. Our economy isn’t money, our economy is people—all of our people.

We measure success by the growing prosperity and security of our people–all of our people.

A stronger middle class is not the consequence of economic growth — a stronger middle class is the cause of economic growth.

Together, as one nation we must build an American economy that works again for all of us. If we take these actions…the dream will live again. Climate change is real. We must create an American jobs agenda to build a new renewable energy future.

We must launch a new agenda to rebuild America’s cities as places of Justice and Opportunity for all.

And if we take these actions… the dream will live again.

For the sake of our country’s security, and our country’s well-being, and our country’seconomic growth, we must also bring 11 million of our neighbors out of the shadows by passing comprehensive immigration reform.

Because the enduring symbol of our nation is not the barbed wire fence,… it is the Statue of Liberty.

We are a nation of immigrants. We are a compassionate and generous people. And if we act according to our principles–and the better angels of our nature—if we return to our true selves, the dream will live again.

Make no mistake about it — our ability to lead the world and be safe in this world depends on the strength of the American Dream here at home. The challenges we face in the world today are different from the challenges we faced in the 1990’s.

Together, we must construct a New National Security Strategy and build new alliances that are forward-seeing and forward-acting.

The center of this new strategy must be the reduction of threats.  Fast-evolving threats — from violent extremism, pandemic, cyber attacks, nuclear proliferation, nation-state failures, to the drought, famine, and floods of climate change.

Together, we must craft a New Foreign Policy of Engagement and Collaboration. We must join with like-minded people around the world — especially with nations here in our own hemisphere — for the cause we share of a rising global middle class.

We must put our national interest first, we must put America first.

But we cannot rebuild the American Dream here at home by catering to the voices of the privileged and the powerful.

Let’s be honest. They were the ones who turned our economy upside-down in the first place. And they are the only ones who are benefiting from it.

We need to prosecute cheats, we need to reinstate Glass-Steagall, and if a bank is too big to fail without wrecking our nation’s economy…then it needs to be broken up before it breaks us…again. I bet he would…

Well, I’ve got news for the bullies of Wall Street —

The presidency is not a crown to be passed back and forth by you between two royal families.

It is a sacred trust to be earned from the people of the United States, and exercised on behalf of the people of the United States.

The only way we are going to rebuild the American Dream is if we re-take control of our own American government! Is a dream a lie, if it don’t come true?…

Or is it something worse?

Whether the American dream becomes a lie, or becomes an ongoing truth that our children can enjoy,…can build upon,… can live,… is really up to you and me.

It is up to all of us.

It’s not about Wall Street, not about the big five banks, it’s not even about big money trying to buy our elections.

It’s about U.S.

It is about whether, together, We the People still have the will to become great Americans.

I believe we do.

My decision is made.

Now you will all have a vital choice to make next year, for the good of your families, and for the good of the country you love and carry in your hearts.

It is a choice that people will ask you about for years to come.

And so, when a child with a world of learning ahead asks who you voted for, I want you to be able to tell that child, “I voted for you.”

When you see a dad sweating through another long shift in order to give his daughter a better future, I want you to be able to tell him, “I voted for you.”

When you see a mom working long hours at two jobs for the dream of sending her son to college, I want you to be able to tell her, “I voted for you.”

When you see a young father who hungers for a decent job to support his family, I want you to be able to tell him, “I voted for you.”

The story of our country’s best days is not found in a history book, because this generation of Americans is about to write it!

And that is why today,… to you — and to all who can hear my voice — I declare that I am a candidate for President of the United States….and I’m running for YOU.

May God Bless you and may God Bless the United States of America.